MapReduce, Simple Programming for
Big Results.
MapReduce is a programming model for
the Hadoop ecosystem.
It relies on YARN to schedule and
execute parallel processing over
the distributed file blocks in HDFS.
There are several tools that use the
MapReduce model to provide a higher level
interface to other programming models.
Hive has a SQL-like interface that
adds capabilities that help with
relational data modeling.
And Pig is a high level data flow language
that adds capabilities that
help with process map modeling.
Traditional parallel programming requires
expertise on a number of computing and
systems concepts.
For example, synchronization
mechanisms like locks, semaphores,
and monitors are essential.
And incorrectly using them can
either crash your program, or
severely impact performance.
This high learning curve
makes it difficult.
It is also error prone,
since your code can run on hundreds, or
thousands of nodes,
each having many cores.
And any problem related to
these parallel processes,
needs to be handled by
your parallel program.
The MapReduce programming model greatly
simplifies running code in parallel
since you don't have to deal
with any of these issues.
Instead, you only need to create and
map and reduce tasks, and you don't
have to worry about multiple threads,
synchronization, or concurrency issues.
So, what is a map and reduce?
Map and reduce are two concepts
based on functional programming
where the output the function
is based solely on the input.
Just like in a mathematical function,
f (x) = y, y depends on x.
You provide a function, or
operation for a map, and reduce.
And the runtime executes it over the data.
For map, the operation is
applied on each data element.
And in reduce, the operation
summarizes elements in some manner.
An example, using map and
reduce will make this concepts more clear.
Hello word is a traditional
first program you code
when you start to learning
programming languages.
The first program to learn, or hello
word of map reduce, is often WordCount.
WordCount reads one or
more text files, and
counts the number of occurrences
of each word in these files.
The output will be a text
file with a list of words and
their occurrence frequencies
in the input data.
Let's examine each step of WordCount.
For simplification we are assuming
we have one big file as an input.
Before WordCount runs,
the input file is stored in HDFS.
As you know now,
HDFS partitions the blocks across
multiple nodes in the cluster.
In this case, four partitions labeled,
A, B, C, and D.
The first step in MapReduce is to
run a map operation on each node.
As the input partitions are read
from HTFS, map is called for
each line in the input.
Let's look at the first lines
of the input partitions, A and
B, and start counting the words.
The first line,
in the partition on node A,
says, My apple is red and my rose is blue.
Similarly, the first line, on partition B,
says, You are the apple of my eye.
Let's now see what happens in
the first map node for partition A.
Map creates a key value for
each word on the line containing
the word as the key, and 1 as the value.
In this example, the word apple is
read from the line in partition A.
Map produces a key value of (apple, 1).
Similarly, the word my is seen
on the first line of A twice.
So, the key values of (my,
1), are created.
Note that map goes to each node
containing a data block for
the file,
instead of the data moving to map.
This is moving computation to data.
Let's now see what the same map
operation generates for partition B.
Since each word only
happens to occur once,
a list of all the words with one
key-value pairing each gets generated.
Please take a moment to
observe the outputs of map and
each key-value pair associated to a word.
Next, all the key-values that were output
from map are sorted based on their key.
And the key values, with the same word,
are moved, or shuffled, to the same node.
To simplify this figure, each node only
has a single word, in orange boxes.
But in general,
a node will have many different words.
Just like our example from the two
lines in A and B partitions.
Here we see that, you and apple,
are assigned to the first node.
The word is, to the second node.
And the words, rose and red, to the third.
Although, for simplicity, we drew four
map nodes and three shuffle nodes.
The number of nodes can be extended
as much as the application demands.
Next, the reduce operation
executes on these nodes to
add values for
key-value pairs with the same keys.
For example, (apple, 1), and
another (apple, 1), becomes (apple, 2).
The result of reduce is
a single key pair for
each word that was read in the input file.
The key is the word, and
the value is the number of occurrences.
If we look back at our WordCount example,
we see that there were
three distinct steps.
Namely, the map step, the shuffle and
sort step, and the reduce step.
Although, the WordCount
example is pretty simple,
it represents a large number of
applications to which these three steps
can be applied in order to achieve
data parallel scalability.
For example, now that you have
seen the WordCount application,
consider changing the WordCount
algorithm to index all
the URLs by words after a web crawl.
This means, instead of pointing to
a number, the keys would refer to URLs.
After the map, with this new function,
which by the way is called a user
defined function, the output of
shuffle and sort would look like this.
Now, when we reduce the URLs, all the URLs
that mention Apple would look like this.
This is, in fact, one of the ways
a search engine like Google works.
So now, if somebody came to the interface
built for this application,
to search for the word apple,
and entered apple,
it would be easy to get all
the URLs as the word itself.
No wonder the first MapReduce
paper was produced by Google.
We will give you a link to the original
Google paper on MapReduce from
2004 at the end of this lecture.
It is pretty technical, but
it gives you a simple overview without
the current system implementations.
We just saw how MapReduce can
be used in search engines
in addition to counting the words and
documents.
Although it's possible to add many
more applications, let's stop here for
a general discussion on how the points of
data parallelism can be used in
search in this three step pattern.
There is definitely parallelization
during the map step.
This parallelization is over the input,
as each partition gets
processed one line at a time.
To achieve this type of data
parallelism we must decide on
the data granularity of
each parallel competition.
In this case, it will be a line.
We also see parallel grouping of
data in the shuffle and sort phase.
This time, the parallelization is
over the intermediate products.
That is, the individual key-value pairs.
And after the grouping of
the intermediate products,
the reduce step gets parallelized
to construct one output file.
You have probably noticed
that the data gets reduced
to a smaller set at each step.
This overview gave us an idea of what
kinds of tasks that MapReduce is good for.
While MapReduce excels at independent
batch tasks similar to our applications,
there are certain kinds of tasks that
you would not want to use MapReduce for.
For example,
if your data is frequently changing,
MapReduce is slow since it reads
the entire input data set each time.
The MapReduce model requires that maps and
reduces execute
independently of each other.
This greatly simplifies
your job as a designer,
since you do not have to deal
with synchronization issues.
However, it means that computations
that do have dependencies,
cannot be expressed with MapReduce.
Finally, MapReduce does
not return any results
until the entire process is finished.
It must read the entire input data set.
This makes it unsuitable for interactive
applications where the results must be
presented to the user very quickly,
expecting a return from the user.
As a summary, MapReduce hides
complexities of parallel programming and
greatly simplifies building
parallel applications.
Many types of tasks suitable for
MapReduce include search engine
page ranking and topic mapping.
Please see the reading after
this lecture on making Pasta Sauce
with MapReduce for another fun application
using the MapReduce programming model.